The Joe Rogan experience. It's such a unique country.
And you think about the history and their,
their contributions to the martial arts in particular, just, I mean, the,
the warrior ethic of the samurai, like a,
that book Miyamoto Musashi is the book of five rings.
That's a great book for your life, just to,
just to think about excellence in your life and pursuit in your life and how all
things balance out, all other aspects of your life.
Like his idea of being a great samurai. You had to also be great at calligraphy.
You had to be a great artist. You had to, you had to be able to write poetry.
You gotta be a balanced human being in order to fight correctly. You know,
this guy was like 60 and O in one-on-one sword
fights.
And became a pacifist in his later life.
And that book of five rings is, man. It's an amazing book.
We got a massager quote at the end of the anime film.
That's him. Yeah, that's him. My mom. Yeah.
Um, just that whole, the culture, what?
Their contributions to martial arts,
like what they've been able to do with design. Like it's a interesting place.
Even their automobiles, you know? I mean,
they make like Bulletproof cars that lasts forever.
Like they were the first people to figure it out.
Just make cars that don't break.
And go really fast. Yeah.
They're, it's a fascinating culture. So what,
what connection did they have to the anime thing? Do, who did like,
who was making all that animation for you?
Well, we, I had the idea for the record first.
Then we played Fuji rock in 2017. I have a very good friend, uh,
a Japanese friend who grew up in Kentucky on an exchange program
with, with my wife. And he later moved back to Tokyo for college, came radio,
DJ. Uh,
his name is [inaudible] and he did the radio thing for one.
Then he got into voice narration from Marvel over there,
and he's just a good dude. And we were talking,
I went over for a couple of weeks before we played Fuji rock to hang out with
him and my buddies and get some time on the ground.
And the record was recorded the month before. And I was like, man,
it'd be really cool to do some animated videos for this album,
if it's like one or two. And we were,
we were sitting around in his place watching a lot of old animation and anime
films and, um,
the textures and the color and everything is just stuff you don't really see
anymore.
And I was just thinking about like some of my favorite cartoons from
that, especially the older stuff,
the seventies and eighties that came from that world. So he,
we decided to start taking meetings with producers just to get an idea of like,
what would this cost, how long, how long will it take? Is it even possible?
Would they do it? And, um, it was kind of trial and error for a while.
We finally had a meeting with a guy named, uh,
Hiroki who was very understated in the meeting,
sold himself short. You know, it's just like a mid fifties guy on a track suit,
but we come to find out a week later, he's the man.
And like all his buddies are the man too.
And those guys are also used to working under
not necessarily restrictions,
but if they take a project on it's from a big studio,
the story's already dictated, the parameters are dictated.
Like basically they have to stay within someone else's lane with their vision.
And so one of the first he asked me this w what kind of animation I was
interested in.
So I named off some of the references of the things that I loved and was looking
to sort of get in terms of aesthetic and texture.
And he just went straight to the guys that made those things because they were
drinking buddies with all of them. And June pay music. Saki,
especially was the one director who I think Sean translated all the lyrics for
them. Cause I wanted them to know one what the record was about.
And so they could gauge interest. And he just sort of said at dinner one night,
he's like, you're talking about the same things that I deal with as an artist.
He's like, I, you know, I feel like this is, this could be me talking.
We deal with the same things in terms of dealing with business and commerce
versus art. Um,
so he just sort of reacted passionately to the music and he just said,
I want to do the whole record. He's like,
this is kind of a dream project for me. And, uh, I said, okay.
And then there was like, well,
how are you going to do the whole record in a year?
Because we've already been sitting on this thing for a year and a half now. And,
uh, he,
they assembled four other directors who were running teams or project teams at
the same time simultaneously and breaking the songs up into chapters.
So even though there's some more of a Leonard,
a linear narrative told out of chronological order, um,
and then two little side vignettes, which are sort of same universe,
different world, just to give, uh,
a different perspective on some of those songs,
because some directors were doing one song other teams had to,
and he was overseeing the entire thing,
but had them all working simultaneously on it. So we could finish on time.
So I went over six times in the last year and I realized about the second trip
that those visits were very beneficial, uh,
because those guys don't do half-ass, you know what I mean?
And they w they definitely pride themselves on their work and they all wanted me
to be impressed. So every time I would come back, they, they knew I was coming.
I could tell that it was really motivating them to go outside the box.
And everybody wanted to be the guy that blew my mind the most,
you know what I mean? Um, and they did every time.
It was just like some of that stuff. I know how they did it,
and I don't know how they did it, you know,
where can anybody see the whole thing, Netflix? Oh,
it's all on Netflix right now. But you put some of it on YouTube. Uh, well,
want to, the label has to have a single cause they, you know,
they got the relationship of Spotify and all that. So they got to,
which is also frustrating.
Cause we make cohesive concept records that are meant to be consumed as a whole.
And then like, if I'm not going to radio, why do I need a single,
you know what I mean? Like just put the record out,
skip the lead up the whole traditional setup. Cause we're not,
we don't fit that model. Right. Just by making records, we're antiquated,
you know? Um,
but they put a single out and so they put one section of the movie up on
YouTube, which I think we'll take down now that the whole film's out. But, uh.
Yeah, for people that they'd be like, what is going on here? Yeah.
Yeah. We basically made a, you know,
heavy metal or the wall, but with Japanese animators,
I love it. I wouldn't compare it to the wall, but uh, same idea.
It's just a visual, it's a visual age.
It's beautiful to the, the animation that they did for it. It's really,
it's incredible. Did you,
was it weird seeing like their vision connected to D to your music?
No. I mean, I wrote the initial story, the, the main byline screenplay,
and then told June pay, like we were trying to do an homage of, uh,
specifically Yojimbo and then a couple of other famous samurai films.
Like the Kashi Caetano was a twitchy and a lot of Korea saw things like
very reoccurring storylines. Um,
and we were watching Kurosawa films in the studio making the record on silent
and the control room just to kind of keep our mood, right.
Like to keep everything kind of dark and ominous and no second guessing. Ah,
so, but yeah, it's kind of like a futuristic dystopian Yojimbo,
which, um,
which is also a fistful of dollars where you got one town of people being
oppressed by a couple rival factions or gang leaders, uh,
and sort of using them for the wrong building.
So in the future now we just jump high and I talked about it. Well,
sex,
drugs and weapons and war are really the main drivers of the
economy. So let's just say that those are the only economy, you know,
those are the only things that have value anymore at that point. Um,
and he got weird. So I gave him a rough script and then they just, I said,
but you know, I want you guys to do what you do.
So feel free to add or take things in any direction you want at any time.
So then you get 30 women with their out dancing and
which, which was I, that was June Pei's idea. I told him there was a very old,
famous samurai film calls the twitchy. And at the end of it, a,
this blind swordsman conquers,
this evil force and the townspeople celebrate,
and there's this very famous scene in the end of it,
with his traditional dance and they're doing this dance. And I said, you know,
can we sneak this in as a dance sequence slash homage and anybody that has to be
like a film buff geek, like me would get it. Anybody else just be like,
this is cool.
So they decided to take the gimps and the sex trafficked slaves,
so to speak and then just make a big chorus line. But then they had a woman,
a traditional Japanese dancer come in and they put her on motion capture and
green screen. And she did the actual dance from the film and the animated,
everyone to that. Wow. I was like, that's pretty sweet.
I wouldn't have thought of that, but he did what I wanted.
He just gave me what he wanted to do with it.
Now, how long is the whole thing?
40? The same links is the audio is the album. It's 42 minutes. Wow.
It's a brilliant idea, man. It's really cool.
I just love the idea that you're experimenting with something like that.
Just trying it out, but it had to be a long stretch.
That was the hardest part was sitting on it so long. And then hyper-focusing,
I mixed the record three times, mastered it twice.
And then we had to do a surround sound mix for the movies.
So I'm pretty burnt out on it. I'll be honest. I'm ready to go play it live,
but I don't ever want to hear that again. Um.
Does that contribute to you the way you, uh,
get creative with the sound when you perform in life, you change out?
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Do you think you're going to do this in the future again,
like this kind of animation or is this a one-off?
Oh, no. The, uh,
there's already talk of doing a C I wouldn't do the music again.
I would certainly, I might,
if they want to run with the story, I'd be all about it.
Either prequel or sequel action. Um,
but I wouldn't want to make this Sonic signature again.
I would probably use like traditional Japanese musicians and then contemporary
production methods and like actually have dialogue and sound effects and make a
story.
You're going to get into the cartoon business.
I got three kids.
That would be awesome. It looks awesome. I got to watch the whole thing.
I got to check it out. It's really.
Weird, man. It's super trippy light, a big, right,
like that big Mike Tyson blunt.
When you get home tonight at midnight and your kids are asleep and watch that
and then think about what a weird I am.
All right. Now, when you,
when you think about like doing another storyline like that,
like following that storyline.
I haven't thought about it. It'd be pretty easy though. I mean,
she rides off with the two robots and there's like an AI monster on
Lyft dealt with. Or you could go back in time,
which is the origins of the two slick and Slims feud with her dad.
And while they show up to the dojo and kill everybody, I don't know.
There's all kinds of just right and making up pretty straightforward.
Yeah.